The common human factions in the story are not all that novel or exciting. They are pretty regular military groups who defend the secret labs of combat missions. Originally they were inspired by the TV show Stargate. I wanted their uniforms to resemble those in Stargate Atlantis and Ethan Lennox was based on Joe Flanigan. But apart from that there isn't much else to say about them. The big common human faction is called "The Warehouse". The player controlled team is named "Chevron Detachment". It was originally thought as working for the Warehouse, but in recent iterations of the story they might be an independent faction, with the Warehouse being an enemy.

A minor faction which is consistently the enemy despite story changes are PMC. These would be special units hired by either Agarthians or The Warehouse to have bigger diversity of enemy abilities as well as obfuscate a faction in the narrative.

The other faction around which the story revolves are the Agarthians, referring to the conspiracy theory of the Hollow Earth, where an advanced civilization would exist hidden inside a city called "Agartha". But this paranormal story constitutes a psy-op misinformation created by the Agarthians in the X-Poll story, where they resemble very little from it. Agarthians will use the term "danavo" instead of "common humans" to contrast distinguish themselves.

Other characters aren't as well defined. I just know I want to have a team made up of 2 or 3 danavo, in particular a special-ops mercenary (named Ethan Lennox) and some sort of technical expert, like a scientist or engineer (Sven Moller is the stand-in name). But also include at least one Agarthian soldier, much like how Teal'c functioned in the Stargate show. There must be a balance between masculine and feminine characters. The Agarthian agent could be a guide to the underground tunnels, or a double agent, but likely her identity as an Agarthian wouldn't be known until the middle of the story.

The team could also be augmented by two robotic characters to be unlocked during gameplay, a danavo-design bomb-disposal robot that acts like mobile cover and an Agarthian exoskeleton with heavy weapons.

A lot more lore development went into defining the Agarthians. They would be a sort of secret cult which isolated themselves from humanity after developing advanced technology that allowed them to hide. Originally I thought about making them older than known historical humans, but it's probably easier on the plot to make them a rogue organization similar to Freemasons or Scientology.

Their motivations are to maintain and safeguard the computers to which most Agarthian minds are uploaded. The uploaded Agarthians act as leaders which are immortal (dubbed "devio"), but without a body to act on the world, while Agarthians with a physical body (known as "Adityo") are like worker ants in the hopes of being allowed to upload one day. They work hard selecting people to be uploaded and have been seeking to develop technology that would allow downloading Devio back into physical bodies. They might need to reluctantly accept that Danavo are the key to inventing such technology, despite their chauvinism.

Agarthian bodies are very reliant on genetic engineering. Although they are made not very different from Danavo at a glance, allowing them to disguise easily, close observation shows their bodies have a lot of improvements and simplifications. They can also use gene therapy to make body modifications depending on need for a mission.

Agarthians use a language based on Esperanto and a ficticious writing system of their own. The names of Agarthian characters referred were changed to account for the rules of the language. For example "Seibra" has been changed to "Seigro" and "Exfon" has been changed to "Eksono".

More lore ideas have been explored in Markdown files edited using Tangent Notes (https://www.tangentnotes.com/). These files are under "XPoll Tangents/".


In early development, I wanted the story to be about The Warehouse who, after collecting Agarthian technology, have invented a teleportation machine. The story would be about the wacky things that teleportation would enable a military organization to do and the player would use the teleporter as combat mission selecting device. The combat mission would be to search more Agarthian devices.

This brought a lot of plot questions I couldn't answer. The latest iteration of the story involves the player team infiltrating the underground network of tunnels where The Warehouse has been experimenting on Agarthian technology. Maybe the Agarthians secretly hired the team to sabotage that research, or search for novel technology they don't have. But the teleporter doesn't actually exist and is just misinformation to distract from real operations going there.
